- structure : {    
1 : Explain idea of method.    2 : Provide ready-made questions.    3 : Explain sources of material that can be adapted or used directly.    4 : Explain how to create own material.
}

Why 3E?
Why teach English the 3E way--easily, effectively, and entertainingly? I presume there's no need to expound on why it's desirable to teach English in a way that's easy for you. And if you have a basic sense of conscientiousness, then it's plain why being effective is also desirable. But why entertainingly?

How is 3E different from the usual ways of teaching English
There's plenty of research backing up the idea that teaching a subject in a way that's enjoyable to learner also tends to be more effective at helping them learn. This also matches what experience tells us. Not only are we more engaged than we're not enjoying ourselves, and we're far more willing and likely to continue and in the future repeat the activity. But in much of the world, and in particular Asia, this simple bit of common sense is ignored when it comes to teaching English.
You might wonder though why, if you're teaching English to students who are likely to be accustomed to dull ways of learning English should you aspire to be entertaining?
Aside from the obvious, an important benefit from the perspective of teaching English as a source of incomes is that it helps ensure you can continue a teaching gig, whether that's for an employer or tutoring someone one-on-one.

A word on terminology
I've standardized the terminology to make the book's instructions easy to follow. "Material" refers to the content that you teach. "Activity" refers to the way that content is presented to your students--for example, a game. "Lesson" refers to a combination of material and activity that you use in your classroom as a teacher.

Most of this book is focused on explaining how to use several activities, which I have found to carry the most "bang for the buck"--i.e. being the most effective and being most entertaining while requiring the least effort. The appendix includes several examples of material. These of course can be used in your classroom, but they're included in this book mostly for illustrative purposes. The idea is that you can use the activities by pairing them with material that you either find in the form of content in textbooks, online content, and so forth, or that you create yourself from scratch or based on fodder that you find.

 maximum effectiveness in helping students be entertained, and therefore engaged, so that they learn as they practice using English, while 

Easily
The key strategy that you use to make teaching English is that students should do most of the "work" in the classroom.

Effectively
Conveniently, arranging class time so that most of it is spend with the students communicating with each other in order to maximize the amount of practice each of them gets is also the most effective approach for improving their English in a group class.

Entertainingly
Fundamentally, making a class more enjoyable for students is giving them enjoyable tasks to perform. Unless a teacher is a dynamic lecturer or students are particularly interested in the content of a lecture, traditional classes tend to be dull. You can counter this easily in an English class by using communication-centered approach, because as social beings we enjoy communicating with each other. In addition to making sure the bulk of class time is spent with all students interacting verbally with each other, you can also supplement discussion and conversation with games, as described elsewhere in this book.

[usable material]
minimaxTravelTest
foodFacts
[personal anecdotes]

[methods] : use 8 as in Do, Too system, and add basic discussion
Who Bets Best
Chit Chat
Debate Bid
Escalating Stakes
Debate Triplets
Hot Potato { for lower-level classes }
Class Survey
Jigsaw Technique
Basic Discussion
Guess Buying
Roving Debate

[key principles]
When you have a group class, have students work in small groups, of two if possible. Not only does it facilitate student-centered communication, but it tends to make the class more enjoyable. An important to remember however is that some students will have the mindset that only when they talk to the teacher can they improve. You should disabuse them of this notion by explaining that turning a group class into a "serial one-on-one" class will severely limit each student's speaking practice time, which is a crucial determinant of progress speed.



Who bets best


Basic discussion
A discussion activity is straightforward in principle, but can sometimes be difficult to pull off successfully in practice. Here are some tips to ensure a lively discussion that engages your students. First, make sure to choose a topic that is of interest to them. Many inexperienced teachers will wind up just choosing discussion fodder that is interesting to themselves without considering whether it will be interesting to the students as well. To get some ideas of what's interesting to your students, ask some locals or if you can read the local language check out popular local websites to see what kinds of things local people are interested in. Of course, there are also many topics that are nearly universal interest, such as relationships, food, and so forth. At least before you've confirmed your students are in fact interested, avoid narrow topics that might reflect culturally-bound or individual interests.
A local newspaper or news website can be a rich source of content. I suggest looking though at less time-sensitive content. The reason? Time-sensitive will only remain "fresh" for a short time so you won't be able to use it for a long time. News items about culture.
Another tip, while you want to avoid offensive topics or topics that might give rise to angry conflict, it's often productive to choose topics that produce differing opinions, as this is a stimulus to lively discussion. If everyone is already in agreement, there's personal perspective to describe, less persuading to be done, etc.
Second, it's good to have some interesting content as a starting point for discussion. This could be an article, interview, etc. to which your discussion questions have been added.

Who bets best
This is an extremely simple game that is enthusiastically always received by students, especially if you have some interesting questions to go along with the game.
To prepare, collect several multiple-choice questions (true/false- or yes/no-type questions will also work, though multiple-choice questions work best). It's best if these are all about the same general topic, if only to lend a sense of cohesiveness to your lesson. The questionnaires xx in Appendix are examples of quesitons that will work with this activity.